capitalize it! is a website that properly capitalizes text, or puts it into sentence case. It capitalizes the beginning of sentences, proper nouns, and some acronyms using natural language processing (NLP). To get started, enter "flask run" into the command line (from the directory /final) to run the application on a local host. The host URL should appear in the terminal for you to click on and be redirected.

Once you arrive at the home page, you may type text into the textbox to be capitalized or upload a .txt file to be capitalized. For the textbox method, simply type in the text you want capitalized and click "Capitalize it!”. You will be redirected to another page that allows you to view the capitalized text, rate the accuracy, and submit another request. You are only asked to rate your first request, although you may rate all requests if you’d like. To rate, click on one of the five stars at the bottom of the page, with 5 stars representing perfect capitalization and 1 star representing complete inaccuracy. Please rate to the best of your ability as ratings are stored and analyzed for future improvements.

If you would like to submit a .txt file to be capitalized, click “Or upload file” from the home page. You will be redirected to an uploader where you may select a file from your computer. If no file is selected or a file that is not .txt is selected, you will be flashed an error message and the request will not go through. Otherwise, you will be sent back to the homepage, where you can see the file’s original text and the capitalized text. Again, you will be asked to rate the accuracy if it’s your first request in a while.

You can copy and paste capitalized text for use in other applications. Note that requests themselves are not stored (including file contents), just their associated ratings. Hope you enjoy!
